Create verified-builds.md (#522)
solana-foundation/developer-content: content/guides/advanced/verified-builds.md

---
date: 2024-09-26T00:00:00Z

> difficulty: intermediate

Reviewer: lets make this featured to show at the top of the guides page
```suggestion
difficulty: intermediate
featured: true
```

Author: I would actually like to not put too much featuring on it until its actually ready. Wdyt? Still lots a work to do until its properly usable.

Reviewer: that's fair then, we can ignore making it featured.

do you think we should generally wait until we merge this then?

Reviewer 2: ship imo. Feature later. Get it indexed

> title: "How to verify a program"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "How to Verify a Program"
```

description:
  "Verified builds is a way to link your program to its source code and let
  everyone independently verify that the program was indeed built from that
  provided source code."
tags:
  - web3js
keywords:
  - tutorial
  - verified builds
  - security.txt
  - verified source code
  - find a programs source code
  - security
  - blockchain tutorial
---

This guide is meant to be a reference for developers who want to implement
verified builds for their programs on Solana. We will cover what verified builds
are, how to use them, special considerations, and best practices to ensure the
authenticity of your program onchain.

# What are verified builds?

Verified builds ensure that the executable program you deploy to Solana’s
network matches the source code in your repository. By doing this, developers
and users can have confidence that the program running onchain corresponds
exactly to the public codebase, promoting transparency and security.

The verification process involves comparing the hash of the onchain program with
the hash of the locally built program from the source code. This ensures no
discrepancies between the two versions.

> > A verified build should not be considered more secure than a not verified
> > build. But it gives the user the ability to verify that the program was built

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> A verified build should not be considered more secure than an unverified build.
> A verified gives the user the ability to verify that the program was built
```

> > A verified build should not be considered more secure than a not verified
> > build. But it gives the user the ability to verify that the program was built
> > from the provided source code and by that everyone can verify the program does
> > what it is supposed to do and easily contact the developer and open an issue
> > if something goes wrong.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> While a verified build should not be considered more secure than an unverified build, the build enables developers to self verify the source code matches what is deployed onchain. Using the source code, a developer can then validate what the code executes when sending a transaction.
```

The verified builds pipeline was thought out and is maintained by
[Ellipsis Labs](https://ellipsislabs.xyz/) and [OtterSec](https://osec.io/). For
more details, follow the guide in the
[original verified builds](https://github.com/Ellipsis-Labs/solana-verifiable-build)
repository as well and soon the verify build process will move directly into the
[Anza](https://www.anza.xyz/) tool suite.

# How does it work?

The verification process is done by comparing the hash of the onchain program
with the hash of the locally built program from the source code. You build your
program in a controlled environment using the Solana Verify CLI and Docker. This
ensures that the build process is deterministic and consistent across different
systems. Once you have the executable, you can deploy it to the Solana network.
During the build process a PDA of the
[verify program](https://github.com/otter-sec/otter-verify) will be created.
This PDA contains all the data necessary to verify the program.

> ```rust

Author: It was supposed to shoe all the fields of the PDA. In included them in the text instead.

point for users to check the verification. You can already see these
[API calls](https://verify.osec.io/status/PhoeNiXZ8ByJGLkxNfZRnkUfjvmuYqLR89jjFHGqdXY)
being used in the
[Solana Explorer](https://explorer.solana.com/address/E1fcPKuV1UJEsTJPpab2Jr8y87ZN73i4CHTPLbWQE6CA/verified-build)
and
[SolanaFM](https://solana.fm/address/E1fcPKuV1UJEsTJPpab2Jr8y87ZN73i4CHTPLbWQE6CA/transactions?cluster=mainnet-alpha),
among other places.

# Why should I use verified builds?

Using verified builds provides the following benefits:

- Security: Guarantee that the program running onchain matches the source code,
  preventing malicious alterations.

- Transparency: Allows other users and developers to validate that the onchain
  program is trustworthy by comparing it with the public codebase.

- Trust: Increase user confidence, as verified builds demonstrate that your
  program's onchain behavior is aligned with your public code. When building
  verifiable programs, you minimize risks associated with running unauthorized
  or malicious code. It also ensures you comply with best practices and give
  security researchers an easy way to contact you.

> # How do I implement verified builds?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# How do I create verified builds?
```

your platform. Once installed, ensure the Docker service is running following
this guide further.

Cargo: If you don’t already have Cargo installed, you can install it by running
the following command:

```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

2. Install the Solana Verify CLI The Solana Verify CLI is the primary tool used
   to verify builds. Solana Verify CLI is currently maintained by
   [Ellipsis Labs](https://ellipsislabs.xyz/) and can be installed using Cargo.
   The verify process will soon move into the [Anza](https://www.anza.xyz/) tool
   suite. The general way of verifying builds will stay very similar though.

You can install it by running:

```bash
cargo install solana-verify
```

If you need a specific version of the CLI, you can pin the version with:

```bash
cargo install solana-verify --version $VERSION
```

For extra caution, you can install a version directly from a specific commit:

```bash
cargo install solana-verify --git https://github.com/Ellipsis-Labs/solana-verifiable-build --rev 13a1db2
```

3. Building Verifiable Programs

To verify against a repository it needs to have a cargo.lock file in the root

> directory. You can for example use this as a preset:

Author: It needs to have a cargo.lock. But for that you need the cargo toml and then create the lock file. Updated.

#[cfg(not(feature = "no-entrypoint"))]
security_txt! {
    name: "MyProject",
    project_url: "https://myproject.com",
    contacts: "email:security@myproject.com,discord:security#1234",
    policy: "https://myproject.com/security-policy",

    // Optional Fields
    preferred_languages: "en,de",
    source_code: "https://github.com/solana-developers/solana-game-preset",
    source_revision: "5vJwnLeyjV8uNJSp1zn7VLW8GwiQbcsQbGaVSwRmkE4r",
    source_release: "",
    encryption: "",
    auditors: "Verifier pubkey: 5vJwnLeyjV8uNJSp1zn7VLW8GwiQbcsQbGaVSwRmkE4r",
    acknowledgements: "Thank you to our bug bounty hunters!"
}
```

Once the security.txt information is embedded in your program, it can be easily
queried via tools like the Solana Explorer, ensuring that your contact and
security details are available to anyone looking to report potential issues.

## Best practices

- Use Links: For information likely to change (e.g., contact details), it's
  recommended to link to a web page rather than hard-coding them into the
  contract. This avoids the need for frequent program upgrades.

- Verification: Before deploying, verify the format and content using the

>   query-security-txt tool, which can validate both onchain programs and local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `query-security-txt` tool, which can validate both onchain programs and local
```
